so Nigel this the scars have confirmed
today that they're releasing you from
the contract and you're going to be
unveiled as the new director of rugby
across sir firstly must have been quite
a difficult consideration and decision
to make off there's so many years need
three decades that he is with the cover
yeah you know I was born into observant
and new shed within the Scarlet
environment since the age of 18 really
it's been a huge part of my life it's
and to get the opportunity to be head
coach of the Scarlets was probably my
dream job so it's been a huge part of my
life it's not just a job it's it takes
over your life and it's been fantastic
I've enjoyed every single minute of what
I've done at the Scarlet and it was an
exceptionally tough decision on a
professional level you know I think I've
worked out over the last four years with
the Scarlet we've developed a very
competitive group of players and
exciting group of young talent and also
we developed an exciting group of young
coaches as well and I think the time is
right for them to progress and take the
next step forward in terms of their own
development like it is for me I think
from a professional level I'd always
wanted a coach outside of the Scarlet
environment because i needed to
challenge myself differently and this
opportunity presents itself and enables
me to do that but i do feel that I leave
this gravity in a very healthy position
and we will see probably on the weekend
another for Scarlett's probably be
capped so it says a lot for what we've
done here of the last word he said in
when you were announced for years ago
the heads coach let's judge you on how
you leave is
it's how you come in there have been a
lot of you know there's been a lot of
change in those four years the great
source of pride for you now seeing what
has been created here and particularly
in terms of the development of players
and that really is working within this
region yeah you know I do look back and
you know I'm fairly comfortable with
what we've achieved it over those four
years first 15 months it's all very
difficult there's a lot of stuff that we
have to do and I said all you had to do
it be in the head coach which which
compromise my values but those those
were the circumstances that we found
ourselves from that from that time we've
built we've got from within we look to
develop our own talent and I think we
don't extremely well our performances
have improved our results have improved
I'm where we're at the stage where we
can compete with the best teams in
Europe and we're not far from from from
actually you know within something I
firmly believe that so we were a good
young group of players we we want to
support that with some good news onions
over the coming weeks and months and I
think there's an exciting group of
coaches as well both Simon and marker
develop a lure the last couple of years
Danny Wilson Oh comes in to supplement
them who's got a wealth of experience
and I think for my money is one of the
best technical coaches around so I think
there's a lot to look forward to in
terms of being a scarlet but as I said
this decision for me is about my own
professional development seeing it in
that position and leaving it and that
was that part of the ability for you to
be able to look at this new opportunity
as well knowing how you were leaving it
yeah absolutely you know as I said it's
been a long hard for years I've enjoyed
every minute of it but it's a huge
responsibility you know this is a huge
region it's got a massive heritage and
you carry that with you and it's tough
enough for four years to do that it's
not easy but I've enjoyed it and you
know I do believe it's somebody else's
opportunity to do that now and I firmly
believe that we did a very strong
position 498 games 115 tries to the club
and would you look back on it we look
back on your playing days when you're
coaching days will be a mix of the two I
mean it's over I think so please
30 years worth of association with the
scholars it's still going to be in blood
children I'm still who's the associated
with a scarlet you know and I think one
of the good things about nuvi words that
they play on a Saturday afternoon which
will allow me you know possibly to come
down and watch them other games here I
might love that because you know
Scarlett's are everything to me I dread
the fact that they ever played obstacles
i will know how to support so it's going
to be very very tough in terms of the
needed two mar consignment obviously
quick progression for them book as a
group and we've always talked about the
coaching group not as a hierarchy that
that remains doesn't it that code yeah
very little change you know obviously
had ultimately responsibility and have
to drive things hard and and Simon will
take that responsibility and role and
you do that very well but in terms of
the way that we're going about their
business how we development how we're
moving forward not a lot is going to
change it I firmly believe that this
group whether i was in it or not had
another year or two in it to get better
as it is i won't be in it no but please
these boys have developed really well I
solid they understand the values of the
region and they will take this region
forward I'm totally confident and in
terms of the players that they've got
you know obviously you know real
progress this season but even more
expected probably next season yeah I
think we can that we can look ahead to
next season with with with a lot of
ambition really because we've got that
young group of players will be a little
bit more mature than they were this year
I do think that we've recruited well and
as i said earlier few little sayings
will be named over the next couple of
weeks and that will strengthen this team
and we can expect more from them and
we've always said that we don't set
ourselves any limits we accept want to
be successful the scholars want to be
successful I don't see any reason why we
can't kick on and improve further like
we have over the last couple of seasons
so in say goodbye of a community of he
thank you
I don't always start to be honest you
know it's really tough from the Board of
Directors will be fantastic and
supporting me constantly throughout my
tenure here the coaching staff at they
work with all the players have been far
less you know they're a great bunch of
players of great integrity honesty and
humility which is a lot of our core
values and of course the supporters EO
there's no doubt that we've got a
fantastic group of supporters the poor
support here it's phenomenal you know
the passion the pride it engrosses them
there this is their life like it is for
us who work within the environment our
sponsors you know who again associate
with what we are the brand that that the
Scarlet is I think just was on and on
and on and so many people to come a busy
summer probably for you do you get a
chance of a break or you straight
straight over to Gloucester well timing
isn't never always great and that's the
case here but I plan to go to South
Africa during World Cup is is all over
there obviously my son is involved but
also give me an opportunity to look at
some of the young roster players who are
playing for England as well so it'll be
a good opportunity maybe get away from
things for a week but a bit of a
busman's holiday really but then a week
when they when i get back it'll be full
on with Gloucester and there's a lot to
do that a lot of stuff to set up and you
know that'll be a big challenge well
thank you very much for everything you
done seen along normal time with the
Scarlets but we'll hope to see you back
here to see watch a few games and all
the best in your new role not too much